Hello, dear colleagues. My name is Olga Nikolaevna Zabira.
I have been a director of the staff for more than 11 years.
I have been working as a staff member since 1989.
I actually came to the business right after it was announced that private enterprises could be created in November 1988.
I can say that I have been working in the private sector since the very beginning.
Everything we are going to discuss today is very close to me and is very important for my practice.
The topic of our conversation today is the person in the organization and the function of motivation.
We will only start the function of motivation with you.
The topic of motivation is only the basis, because it is an endless topic that can be discussed a lot.
It is a topic that is of great interest and attention of listeners and managers.
It is a topic that is constantly discussed in any organization.
So, let's start with our first topic – the person in the organization.
The person in the organization and the organizational environment.
What is it?
You know very well that any of us, wherever we are, is in the organizational environment.
We will talk about this environment today.
People work in any organization, and, of course, the communication between people in the company is very important.
This communication is carried out through the structure, through the corporate culture that exists,
whether the company is aware of it or not, and it also greatly affects the style of management, the style of management.
The establishment of interaction between people in the organization, mutual expectations.
The person in the organization, what the person expects from the organization, and what the organization expects from us, from those who came to work there.
The gap between the requirements for a person who occupies a certain place or position and its potential, in fact, efficiency.
We come to the organization and count on something.
The organization, when hiring us, naturally expects some of our strong sides.
Do they match or not?
Carefully selecting personnel.
This is, of course, also a very important issue, and it directly flows from the previous one.
Our expectations.
Did it match or not?
Am I a person from the organization? Is this my company or not?
Hiring, mentorship, guidance, putting in place a position.
These are important things for any employee who has just joined the company.
Group values we will consider with you.
The influence of informal groups, role distribution.
And, finally, the topic of infinite motivation.
But we start with the topic of the person in the organization.
The person and the organizational environment.
What is an organization?
It is a group of people for achieving a goal.
What are the characteristics of an organization?
Any organization has goals.
What types of organizations exist?
Let's start with the fact that we are already born, we get into a certain organization, which is called a maternity home.
Then there is a kindergarten, a school, a pioneer organization, an institute, a university.
For example, let's take the Moscow State University.
This is an old, well-known organization with its own rules, with its own culture, world fame.
Such organizations as, for example, a football team.
Yes, this is also an organization with its own structure and with its own culture.
Naturally, with its members, with its various groups, formal or informal leaders.
Any organization has a structure and a culture.
The structure of the organization can be completely different,
because it depends on what kind of activity the secret company is conducting.
And, of course, the existence of connections between the members of the organization
and certain rules that exist in the organization is different from one organization from another.
Constant interaction with the environment are the external factors that affect any organization.
Also, the presence and use of resources, that is, motivation, internal motivation in every existing organization.
The organizational structure. What is it?
Let's think, remember.
Each of you works in some company, in an organization that has its own unique structure.
Although, we can say that, in principle, all organizations are built exactly the same.
There is a management or general manager or company owner.
There are managers of the first, second, third level.
There are employees who perform certain functions.
There are departments, sub-departments.
But the organizational structure in any company determines the compatibility between various functions.
Not positions, but functions.
Performed by employees of a particular organization.
The principle of division of labor.
Who, what and how.
The organization is divided into three main types.
The first type is a functional organization.
This is the production, sale or sale, finance, procurement, marketing and other functions.
Product type.
This is the production of any products.
For example, the production of pipes, the production of side products for the population.
For example, kettles, pans, beds.
Anything that can be used to produce pipes.
And the matrix organization.
Recently, such organizations are becoming more and more fashionable, popular and necessary.
Mostly, this fashion was introduced by IT companies.
Because it is there that there are experts of functional departments.
Which are fixed behind one or several product units.
Any structure implies hierarchy.
I think you all know that in any company hierarchy exists.
And there are managers of the higher rank, the middle rank, supervisors, various services, various staff of other functions.
Hierarchy can be completely different.
This is the size between the higher and the lower rank.
For many it seems that the greater the distance between the higher and the lower rank, the steeper the higher rank.
Because they become unimaginable and unattainable.
I can say that in 200 years of the existence of capitalism in the West, they have passed all stages.
From very deep structures to quite small structures at their levels.
We catch up with them with seven-mile steps.
And we must pay tribute to the wisdom of our leaders.
That they were not fond of the great depth of structures.
Since the business was allowed private since 1988.
And it was active since 1889.
Companies were created very small.
There was a manager, an owner, trusted persons of the second level and employees.
There were three levels.
Only three.
If we consider the example of a Western company, for example, very famous as General Motors.
In the 80s, the hierarchy of this company was 22 levels.
That is, from the board of directors to the most ordinary worker, who stood on the conveyor and mounted the machines.
There were 22 levels of hierarchy.
From the point of view of the staff and from the point of view of career growth, this is great.
There is a huge, high road that can overcome any American dream.
But it turned out that this is not so great for the economy and business of the company.
So, in 1980, General Motors decided that 22 levels is too much.
Too much for management, too much for the budget.
Because the higher the management, the higher the salary.
Therefore, it was decided to remove the extra levels.
A colossal analytical work was carried out.
And in the end, they came to hierarchy 6.
That is, from the highest level, this is the board of directors, to the lowest, there were only 6 levels.
It is clear that the career ladder sharply decreased.
And it turns out that it takes much more time to go from one level to another.
From this point of view, of course, there is a big inconvenience.
But from the point of view of management, from the point of view of business, from the point of view of the correct investment of money,
it was a very correct and wise decision.
In a way, they were pioneers in restructuring and reorganization of the company.
Now I will show you a small example.
It is taken from the existing IT company, the Western one, not ours.
Here, in general, in the table, please look from the left side,
where the name of the head and the company number, you will see all those parameters,
according to which a special calculation is carried out.
Let's take, for example, Yevgeny Tischenko.
He is the owner or general director of the company, level 1.
There are 128 people under him.
Yes, a small number, but let's consider the company with such a number.
In total, the level of managers in the organization is 6.
What does it mean?
It means that there are 19 managers in the company.
If we divide 128 by 19, we will come to the number 6.
In total, it turns out that the hierarchy level is 6.
Companies use various types of reviews to understand whether they calculated the level of their hierarchy correctly or not.
In the West, it is called the Organizational Health Index.
Look how interesting it sounds.
Health, that is, healthy management, correct, competent, faithful.
There are various types of reviews for calculating such indexes.
Each company hires consultants and they make surveyors according to this company.
These surveyors are used once a year.
It is desirable that one and the same surveyor be used three years in a row.
It is carried out by all companies in the world that belong to this corporation.
The management index of some entity and companies at the global level is calculated.
What else can we see in this table?
For example, this organizational index shows how much the staff trusts them.
This is a very important point.
I don't think that our business is ready for this today.
Although I know that many advanced companies are more and more inclined to such reviews.
Because they are really interesting.
Are the managers properly equipped?
Do the right people manage the company?
Do the staff trust them?
Because it is trust that builds efficiency.
The efficiency of people, their dedication, their involvement, their work.
Many companies in the West have their own different parameters.
The company that is presented here, I will not name its name,
but they believed that if the index is below 74,
it is worth considering whether the person is standing at the helm of the whole company or a department.
They took such things so seriously.
And this is part of the corporate culture of the company.
We will talk about corporate culture now.
And we will talk very seriously.
Because when you are chosen,
and you choose the company in which you would like to work,
the company of your dream, the employer of your dream,
the question is why you want to work in a particular company,
most people will answer,
I like it because it has an image.
Why is it such a good positive image?
Because people are comfortable there.
Because the culture of relationships in the company is built in such a way
that a person wants to work, be effective, be the best,
help the company, succeed together with yourself.
Naturally, the company depends on the people it hires,
and we depend on the companies we go to work for.
Therefore, when choosing a company,
the employer's work must be very careful,
and during the interview, you are asked questions,
but you must also ask about the company and ask deep questions,
including about corporate culture.
So, what is corporate culture?
It is a system of values and methods of solving problems
that lead an organization to success.
It is a system of values and methods of solutions
that form in employees
and employees,
the consciousness of belonging to a certain culture.
How much are banks different in their culture from these companies,
from pharmaceutical companies
or from such large manufacturers as Pepsi or Coca-Cola?
Everything is absolutely different.
How much are the companies of oil and gas mining industries different?
There is absolutely their own culture,
which has been created consciously or unconsciously for years and decades,
but it exists in these companies.
Every successful company forms,
not unconsciously, but consciously,
influences the culture that exists in the company,
improves it,
and sets some standards.
The slide does not show a mother and a child by chance.
Corporate culture is the child of any company.
So, every successful company forms its own,
unique corporate culture.
Any bank differs from another bank
by its unique corporate culture.
In some bank you will be very comfortable,
and you will want to work there forever,
until retirement, and as long as possible.
And in some bank, for example,
you will be ready to leave even without waiting for the end of the probation period.
Because probation period is not only for an employee,
it is also for a company.
We choose, and we are chosen.
So, corporate culture is the environment
in which any person, any of us,
gets into the organization in which he or she joins.
What types of corporate cultures,
or models, as they are called,
exist in the relations between individuals?
Before I talk about this topic,
I will say that today in Russia
there are no types of corporate culture
that are inherent in our Russian companies.
If we remember that capitalism is 200 years old,
and in our country it started, roughly speaking,
in the 90s,
and the construction of companies,
structuring continues,
and this is, of course, very important,
because the base that was created
for decades, centuries in the West,
we take it over,
we digest it,
and we create something of our own.
We look at all the best that is in the West,
we discard everything that is not suitable for us,
we absorb everything that we can use for ourselves,
use for our business,
for its efficiency.
So, in order to know what we need for our efficiency,
we will look at what the West has come to,
what they have developed,
and how applicable it is to them.
Such co-founders of the issue
of developing types of corporate culture,
such as Charles Handy, Jan Harms, or Harrison,
are very famous in the West.
Charles Handy is a very old man,
of advanced years,
his books are bestsellers on this topic,
and they are written in a very informal,
very funny way,
about the most serious things.
Corporate culture.
What types of corporate culture exist?
Today, in Russia,
the types of corporate culture are not yet defined,
purely our, Russian,
because our business started, roughly speaking,
17 years ago,
since the 90s.
Therefore, everything I will talk about now
is the Western experience.
The experience of 200 years of development of capitalism in the West.
We had a short break for 80 years,
we have now returned to the path we were walking on.
We are catching up,
using all the best that they have developed.
All the mistakes that were made,
we leave them,
trying not to make our own very serious,
but, in any case, to move forward.
So, in order to move forward,
you need to understand what you need to start from.
What types of corporate culture exist?
The main developers of corporate culture
as a concept,
as a culture itself,
as an influence on the life of an organization,
are Harrison, Handy and Harms.
Charles Handy is the most famous of them.
He is the founder and HR,
Human Resources,
HR,
that is, the serious work with the staff
that takes place in companies.
Today, more and more of this is being implemented in Russian companies.
He was also the founder of the corporate culture theory,
which he took from practical examples,
from those companies that existed on the market
and which he analyzed.
So, there are four types of corporate culture.
What are they?
The first one is the role culture.
A single center of power and control,
a coordination council,
or a board of directors,
or a collegium, or a board of directors,
as you like to call it.
There are a lot of different options.
Such a management system is combined
with sufficient freedom in places.
A corporate center manages divisions or branches
not through operational interference,
but through the creation of common rules and standards.
RAUS, Gazprom, large network banks,
large manufacturing companies,
where production is distributed in different regions,
Western structures such as Microsoft,
Hewlett-Packard,
such as Coca-Cola and Samsung,
and many others.
These are the largest corporations
that through rules and standards
manage branches, divisions,
and many other names of subsidiary enterprises.
The main management mechanisms of the center
are strategy,
yes, it is not given away,
to develop in places,
and budgeting.
What is bad about it?
Lack of flexibility.
If you feel that something needs to be changed quickly,
then there will be more profit and efficiency,
it is extremely difficult to do this in a short time.
Because the rules and standards that exist
include paper,
how much time is needed
to bring one or another decision to life.
This company needs a very stable market,
very stable conditions,
and naturally,
they have little creativity.
But in such large companies
it is very dangerous to be creative,
because this creativity
can lead to great financial losses.
What are the success criteria
for such companies?
What are the criteria for success?
What are the criteria for success
for such companies?
It is a well-established functional work.
Screws,
functions,
that is, people, functions.
Communication.
Communication is only written.
Moreover, this communication is written
and saves in many situations.
If you have a written permission or refusal,
for you it is an indulgence,
it is protection in any checks
of the center, in any audits.
What are the main functions of the leaders?
They monitor the implementation
of the rules and regulations,
that is, the rules and standards
adopted in this company
of the role culture.
They manage the processes of people
and really
these people
are given to show themselves.
These companies are hierarchical.
We have considered
an example about General Motors.
There are 22 companies
and 6 companies.
In these companies the depth is not 6.
It may not be 22,
but it may be 18,
15, 12,
but not less.
This is a really large hierarchy.
Again, plus there is
a great career growth
and it is absolutely understandable
to any person.
The next type of culture is
the culture of tasks or the culture of achievements.
The center of power is based
on the competence of knowledge.
These are not large corporations,
although today,
for example,
if we take a corporation like Microsoft,
it was created
as a culture of tasks
and achievements.
It is based on the competence
of the company owner
and on his knowledge
of a certain product.
It is a rapidly changing
organization.
Indeed, it is changing rapidly,
adapting to the changing market.
This is a high flexibility
and a large energy consumption,
enthusiasm.
It is good to have
such enthusiasm,
but not for long.
People get tired quickly.
As a rule, in such companies people work
for a maximum of 3-5 years.
It is almost impossible to keep up with the pace.
But the experience that people acquire
working in such companies
with the culture of tasks and achievements
is simply amazing.
These are people who leave such companies
and say,
I am not afraid of anything in this life.
After that, I can work
in any company with any culture.
I am not afraid of anything.
The criteria of success of this culture
is the performance of super-tasks.
You see, super.
It is not just functional
tracking, it is a super-task.
I have to do what I can't
and I am sure that it will not work.
It will work. Do it. Go ahead.
Communication, again, is only written.
Leaders.
Leaders are gurus, professionals.
They unite
the same enthusiasts,
the same fans of their work
and are
ideological inspirers.
Who works in such companies?
These are people who
are very professional
in a specific area.
Because they need to
perform specific tasks
and achieve certain results.
Very tough structure,
very tough company,
a lot of enthusiasm,
a lot of energy.
It is rare to be able to last longer than 5 years.
But on the other hand,
I will repeat once again,
a colossal experience.
The culture of personality, of a person, of support.
It sounds good if we compare it to the previous one.
The previous one was almost a juice press.
You were squeezed out of yourself and you are free.
And here is such a good company.
The center of power, skills
and potential of individual workers.
It is difficult to manage such an organization
because
such individual workers,
who are professionals,
who are
truly unique employees
in their knowledge, in their skills,
they do not recognize any power over themselves.
They simply do not submit to anyone.
The criteria of success
is the realization of the potential of employees.
That is, I came to realize.
Communication is more verbal than written.
Leaders see the potential,
direct,
develop the worker correctly.
Everything depends on his skills,
achievements
and colossal self-development,
self-improvement.
In principle, this is also an IT business.
Look how interesting the previous IT business company is.
And this IT business company.
You can also give examples
from other businesses.
In this case,
we will stop at the IT sector.
Two different cultures,
two in one sector,
in one area.
Why?
Small companies,
which are created
with the owner-enthusiast,
who has the same enthusiasts,
colleagues,
institutional allies,
who have
colossal potential,
internal capabilities,
want to self-realize,
earn money,
close a project,
implement something.
They support each other.
Such enthusiasts create such companies
with the culture of a person's personality.
And most importantly,
support, trust in each other.
And the last culture is the power.
The unified center of power and control.
The owner,
he can be the chairman of the board,
he can be the general director.
He does not recognize people who can replace him,
does not pass the reins of the board.
By the way, there are a lot of such companies in Russia now.
And I think
that such companies are heard by everyone
by the names of the owners,
which we know.
Banks,
which are associated with the owners,
some gas companies,
which are engaged in development,
IT companies,
some other types of business,
which are associated with the owner.
Because he is a leader,
he is an initiator, an inspirer,
and he is a strategist.
All in one person.
It's very hard.
These people are young,
they are 35 to 50 years old.
They started from the moment of the market rise,
somewhere 15, 17,
maybe 10-12 years ago.
They do not pass, do not delegate anything.
Companies can be
from 50 to 1,500 people.
And everything is concentrated in one hand.
Pros.
High competitiveness in complex market conditions.
Cons.
Abuse of power for personal purposes.
But I will say that today
in Russia these cons are practically not visible.
Because these people
who are in power in their own company,
they do not abuse this power.
Success criteria.
Only the result.
I do not care why not.
I care about the result.
Communication.
In these companies,
correspondence is considered
a bad tone.
What are you writing to me?
Couldn't you come and say?
A person has no time to read.
He concentrated everything on himself.
Such people need to call, say.
Of course, there is a fear that he will simply forget
that he was called and said something.
Therefore, as a council,
for any such conversation,
you need to send a letter
according to our agreement.
During such a telephone conversation,
I confirm,
the managers establish absolute control
over their subordinates.
Loyalty.
Such companies have a very strong security system.
It is not only in Russia, but also in the West.
The same polygraph
that was actively discussed
is used in the West.
It is not considered a breach
if a person has passed the polygraph
before he was hired.
For example, in a bank.
The employee
depends on the attitude
of the manager.
Is it good or bad?
It depends on how you have
developed relations with your manager.
We have today,
of course, much more,
but four main types
of corporate culture.
There are a lot of developments
in corporate culture in the West.
Therefore,
I will draw your attention
to a small
American model.
If it was more
European,
then it is American.
There are also four types here.
Academy, club,
baseball team.
This is generally pure American.
And fortress.
Academy.
Who is hired
in such a company as an academy?
Candidates for the vacancy position
of managers are young employees
who undergo a very serious
professional selection.
As a rule, testing and not one,
with a very narrow specialization.
Pay attention once.
American, because the narrow specialization
is inherent in Americans.
They have lawyers
who know article 23, paragraph A.
And paragraph B is, please,
the next door, another room.
It seems funny to us,
because our education is very broad.
We can really
give advice from different areas.
We are theoretically more prepared.
But they have such an approach.
Right or not,
it's hard to say.
Just such a culture.
Candidates who successfully
pass such exams are hired
as interns' managers.
And they have a special program.
Huge money is invested
in training such managers.
Of course, there is a danger
that some of them will leave.
The competitors will leave,
other companies will leave.
It will be just thrown money.
But the budget is so interesting
that more than 2% remains to work
in the company, because they are motivated
by a career, they are motivated by a salary.
The club itself
already feels closed,
elitist,
something where you would like to get.
The selection is based on experience,
work and knowledge.
If young, energetic, ambitious
are hired in the Academy,
I want, I can,
I was created for this,
then here, behind your shoulders,
there are such and such projects,
you have such and such experience,
you can pass it on to us.
How much are employees ready
to sacrifice their interests
for the sake of the company,
for the sake of the organization?
Unlike the Academy,
here the preparation of wide-profile managers is carried out.
There, remember, narrow specialization,
here is a wide profile.
The manager, for example,
in the sales department can be transferred
to the managers, for example,
in the marketing department, and vice versa.
And, for example,
pharmaceutical companies are quite different.
Well, with a little digression,
you need to have a medical education
to work in sales and marketing.
There are nuances in any closed club.
And in order to get there,
you need to have at least a proper diploma
in education.
The fourth option is a baseball team.
Well, for the Russian version,
I don't know how to call it,
football, it's hard to compare with our football,
we are not very successful.
So far, there is no analogy,
maybe you will come up with something.
What people are selected
by such companies,
focused on success?
It is very similar to the Academy.
Energetic, ambitious.
Age does not matter.
Wow, how great!
Finally, people after 40-45
can send a bold resume
to such a company,
where they do not write
that people under 30 are accepted,
and above 30 do not send a resume.
The potential of the employee
is of particular importance.
And pay attention to the aggressiveness.
Probably such companies
are mostly engaged in sales.
It is the sellers
who should be absolutely aggressive,
uncontrolled,
emotional,
because otherwise
it is impossible to sell anything.
The ability to take risks.
As a rule, employees have very broad
powers and freedom of action.
But they beat for violating
some things and not bringing
results is very painful.
In such organizations,
alas, there is a lot of liquidity,
because it is a big sport.
And if you ran,
you have to run to the end.
But did you calculate your breath
and your strength or not?
This is your personal business.
People from such companies
literally fall out,
like in sports,
unfortunately, often in the hospital.
Therefore, again, choosing a company
or analyzing
what company I work for today,
be very careful.
Measure your capabilities
with the requirements that the company
presents to you, inviting you to work.
And the last strength sounds good.
A large number of organizations
at one stage of their development
are in a state of stagnation.
A very familiar word.
Such organizations do not develop,
but try to survive.
We came out of this period
of socialism, of stagnation,
as we called it when we survived.
But it turns out that there are
such companies in capitalism.
That is, it is quite likely that
in a few decades our Russian business
may grow to such companies
that will be similar
to the fortress.
Why do people attract such companies?
Because they are quiet and stable.
This word to sit down,
yes, you can sit down in them.
On the contrary,
these companies do not attract
aggressive people
who challenge fate.
And, in fact,
it will be boring for them.
It is almost impossible
to create something new in this company.
In the process of forming a corporate culture,
such an organization
could develop
according to any of the above.
An academy, a baseball team
or a club.
But at one point something happened,
or the company achieved its highest results,
and it turns into a fortress.
Or so the situation happened
on the market,
on the market
where one or another company played,
according to internal and external factors,
that this organization
stopped developing
and fell into a state of stagnation.
A few more words
about corporate culture.
Actually,
in some companies there is a culture,
in some there is not.
I don't even know where I work,
is there any culture or not.
Try to think.
If you like the company you work for,
think about
why you like it.
People. What people?
I work because I like the people
I work with.
Observe what people.
I like the attitude
of leadership to us,
between people, between departments.
And what are the disadvantages?
The general advantages.
The formed corporate culture
supports the commitment of employees
to the company's values.
In a company with a strong corporate culture
employees are highly valued.
And those employees who are ready
to contribute
to the efficiency
and development of the company.
The corporate culture defines the rules of the game
in any situation in business.
Rules are written in any situation.
If this is the case,
then you should act this way.
If not, then like this.
The rules.
The rules punish the violation of the rules.
Disadvantages.
Sometimes a strong corporate culture
can be an obstacle
and a necessary change.
We can't let the corporate culture
and standards.
They should be changed.
And this is not a quick thing.
And, of course, different corporate cultures
can have a negative effect
on the merger.
It is very fashionable now.
You probably hear
that one company merges with another,
absorption.
But the fact that one company
was, for example, a company of power
or a role
and merges with a company of a person
and supports them
as if they were together
is almost like getting married.
It is very difficult.
You must calculate everything correctly.
What else affects
the corporate culture?
The natural style of management.
The head of any company
is the manager.
Managers are divided,
like all of us, into men and women.
And there are
three main styles of management.
If we break them down in more detail,
there may be more of them,
but the main three are
the direct,
the authoritarian,
the democratic
or the collegial,
and the liberal,
the anarchic, the nominal,
the non-interfering,
and the permissive.
Now let's see
what styles of management
women have.
You may have noticed
that women have
a liberal style,
the anarchic, the nominal, the non-interfering.
Why?
It is probably the mother's principle
that prevents a mother
from interfering in her child's affairs.
No normal mother
will allow it,
so women do not accept this style.
Look at how many women
and only 25% of men
prefer the democratic style.
Why?
Women should consult
with their colleagues.
Men prefer
the authoritarian style.
Women only 30%.
But I wonder
what women
are easier to work with?
The authoritarian or the democratic?
Which is easier?
Which is more efficient?
The question is not empty.
It is difficult
to make an analysis
of the Russian business,
but if we observe the market
and observe it
for another 10 years,
I think
we will have interesting conclusions.
So,
maybe we will meet
and share our impressions
on this topic.
What styles?
Where are they effective?
Indeed,
there is no person
who is purely authoritarian
or fully democratic.
There are no such people.
We all perform roles in the theatre.
Theatre is life, life is theatre.
We play different roles.
If the situation changes,
we have a different role.
Today someone is Cinderella,
tomorrow someone is a good fairy,
the day after tomorrow Bob Yaga.
It is different.
I have changed.
Directive, authoritarian,
in extreme conditions,
you cannot survive otherwise.
The time limit, the management
should be centralized.
I decided,
I bear responsibility.
By the way, the question of responsibility
is very important.
People like to lead,
but it is better not to bear responsibility.
Responsibility is an important element.
Democratic, standard,
flexible conditions,
when you can calculate,
apply some algorithms,
you can allow yourself
to fantasize about business.
And liberal.
The liberal is ideal
during the merger and absorption.
If the cultures do not coincide,
one company
takes the non-interfering position.
Those who absorb them
most likely
behave authoritarily
and those who are calm
sit and wait.
It requires a lot of
nervous tension
and the ability not to interfere
and not to get out.
A certain psychotype.
It is important to remember
that, as a rule,
in a pure form,
none of the mentioned styles
is found.
The head of the organization
usually has several management styles.
External factors influence the style.
The market,
age of the company,
the personality of the head,
his education,
and the personality of the staff.
By the way, the staff is usually selected by the head.
Therefore, look carefully
what your head is like,
what styles he likes to use,
and whether he is suitable
for you as a head.
Or if you are the head,
try to assess yourself
and see how the organization is organized.
You are a person,
a leader or an employee
and an organization
with its own corporate culture
and different management styles.
What else is important to remember?
As a rule, in a pure form,
none of the mentioned types
of corporate culture is found.
Not only styles, but also types.
The organization usually has
not one, but several types.
Indeed, we begin to develop
the corporate culture as a support,
as a task,
and in the end we can come to the type of power.
For example,
the corporate culture is again
provided by external factors,
such as competition or new laws,
and internal factors,
for example, the management's management,
completely at the will of the company owner.
What external factors,
if we talk about it in more detail,
exist?
These are clients
and service providers.
Any company,
whatever it is,
is created for clients.
Goods, market sales,
you need to know the needs of those people
for whom you create a business
and for whom we work.
Suppliers, of course,
are the market resources,
this is the price,
the availability and use of resources.
The competition, which does not allow us
to sleep, rest, relax,
limits freedom
for our organization.
The game is on the same field,
and on the same field there are so many players
that it becomes tight.
Why is there a merger and absorption?
Because the larger the company,
the easier it is to push
smaller ones out of the market.
Technology and technology,
this is quite modern,
but it creates a specific competitive struggle
and at the same time
creates even more competition.
The company creates more and more new products.
Let's take the IT sector,
because new technologies are introduced there
the fastest.
Medicine, by the way, too.
And from one introduction to another
time is reduced.
That is, more and more
technical progress is taking place.
And, of course, the external factor
is the state.
Today we live by one law,
tomorrow it was canceled,
we live differently.
Maybe we need to re-register everything,
license everything anew,
certify.
There is a lot of time,
we are already starting to lose in business.
These are the serious external factors.
What else
affects a person
in an organization?
Naturally,
I was talking about resources,
material and natural human resources.
And human resources
have the main distinguishing feature
is the presence of intelligence.
The ability to constantly
improve.
And, of course,
people come to the organization
consciously.
These are very important things.
Motivation
Slowly,
we will touch
the topic of motivation.
Step by step, do not rush.
We have considered
a person in an organization.
That is,
a person comes
to some organization
in which there is already
a corporate culture,
there is already a certain
management style.
Under this corporate culture
and style, people are selected,
a strategy is built,
a structure,
a certain hierarchy,
and you get to
a certain hierarchy level.
To sum up,
we have an organization,
we have an organizational structure and culture,
and external factors,
which we have already talked about.
Now, one more factor.
The use of human labor resources.
Motivation.